Lima is a city steeped in the history of many cultures, not least of which is the iconic Inca culture. The ancient calendar of the Inca characterizes this time of the year as a season for planting, and so it is for us. For here in Lima we must plant the seeds of a much more secure, just and prosperous world for all. The calendar of the Incas is not, however, the only calendar that guides us. The calendar of science loudly warns us that we are running out of time. The calendar of finance and technology clearly informs us that the solutions are at hand. The calendar of political will has undoubtedly been fertilizing the ground. And all calendars converge on one resounding fact: the time has come to leave incremental change behind and to courageously steer the world toward a profound and fundamental transformation. Ambitious decisions, leading to ambitious actions on climate change, will transform growth–opening opportunity instead of propagating poverty, safeguarding resources instead of depleting them and valuing long-term stability over short-term volatility. Honourable ministers, on one level you have come to Lima to guide your negotiators as they converge on a pivotal decision to be adopted here in Lima and on how to take the draft from Lima forward to next year. I am confident that you will do that. At another level, and perhaps much more importantly, you ministers have come to Lima to assume your undeniable role as leaders of the urgent present and stewards of our shared future. COP 20/CMP 10 started and continues to session here in a spirit of unprecedented optimism and achievement. Never before have we had such an opportunity, never before have we had such an urgency for transformation. Here in Lima we must plant the seeds of a new, global construct of high quality growth, based on unparalleled collaboration building across all previous divides. History, dear friends, will judge us not only for how many tonnes of greenhouse gases we were able to reduce, but also by whether we were able to protect the most vulnerable, to alleviate poverty and to create a future with prosperity for all. That future is yours to create. Thank you.